.\" (C) Copyright Frank Filz IBM Corp. 2005.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to distribute possibly modified copies
.\" of this manual provided the header is included verbatim,
.\" and in case of nontrivial modification author and date
.\" of the modification is added to the header.
.\"
.TH SCTP_CONNECTX 3 2005-10-25 "Linux 2.6" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
sctp_connectx \- initiate a connection on an SCTP socket using multiple
destination addresses.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.B #include <sys/socket.h>
.B #include <netinet/sctp.h>
.sp
.BI "int sctp_connectx(int " sd ", struct sockaddr * " addrs ", int " addrcnt,
.BI "                  sctp_assoc_t  * "id );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR sctp_connectx
initiates a connection to a set of addresses passed in the array
.I addrs
to/from the socket
.I sd.
.I addrcnt
is the number of addresses in the array.
.PP
If
.I sd
is an IPv4 socket, the addresses passed must be IPv4 addresses. If
.I sd
is an IPv6 socket, the addresses passed can be either IPv4 or IPv6
addresses.
.PP
.I addrs
is a pointer to an array of one or more socket addresses. Each address is
contained in its appropriate structure(i.e. struct sockaddr_in or struct
sockaddr_in6). The family of the address type must be used to distinguish
the address length. The caller specifies the number of addresses in the
array with
.I addrcnt. 
.PP
.I id
is a pointer to the association id and, if provided, will be set to the
identifier of the newly created association.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
On success, 0 is returned. On failure, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EBADF
.I sd
is not a valid descriptor.
.TP
.B ENOTSOCK
.I sd
is a descriptor for a file, not a socket.
.TP
.B EFAULT
Error while copying in or out from the user address space.
.TP
.B EINVAL
Invalid port or address.
.TP
.B EACCES
The address is protected, and the user is not the super-user.
.TP
.B EISCONN
The socket is already connected.
.TP
.B ECONNREFUSED
No one listening on the remote address.
.TP
.B ETIMEDOUT
Timeout while attempting connection. The server may be too 
busy to accept new connections. Note that for IP sockets the timeout may
be very long when syncookies are enabled on the server.
.TP
.B ENETUNREACH
Network is unreachable.
.TP
.B EADDRINUSE
Local address is already in use.
.TP
.B EINPROGRESS
The socket is non-blocking and the connection cannot be completed
immediately.  It is possible to
.BR select (2)
or 
.BR poll (2) 
for completion by selecting the socket for writing. After 
.B select
indicates writability, use
.BR getsockopt (2)
to read the 
.B SO_ERROR
option at level 
.B SOL_SOCKET
to determine whether 
.B connect
completed successfully 
.RB ( SO_ERROR
is zero) or unsuccessfully 
.RB ( SO_ERROR
is one of the usual error codes listed here, 
explaining the reason for the failure).
.TP
.B EALREADY
The socket is non-blocking and a previous connection attempt has not yet
been completed.
.TP
.B EAGAIN
No more free local ports or insufficient entries in the routing cache. For
.B PF_INET
see the 
.B net.ipv4.ip_local_port_range
sysctl in 
.BR ip (7) 
on how to increase the number of local ports.
.TP
.B EAFNOSUPPORT
The passed address didn't have the correct address family in its 
.I sa_family
field.
.TP
.B EACCES, EPERM
The user tried to connect to a broadcast address without having the socket 
broadcast flag enabled or the connection request failed because of a local
firewall rule.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR sctp (7)
.BR sctp_bindx (3),
.BR sctp_sendmsg (3),
.BR sctp_sendv (3),
.BR sctp_send (3),
.BR sctp_recvmsg (3),
.BR sctp_recvv (3),
.BR sctp_peeloff (3),
.BR sctp_getpaddrs (3),
.BR sctp_getladdrs (3),
.BR sctp_opt_info (3),
