.\" (C) Copyright Sridhar Samudrala IBM Corp. 2004, 2005.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to distribute possibly modified copies
.\" of this manual provided the header is included verbatim,
.\" and in case of nontrivial modification author and date
.\" of the modification is added to the header.
.\"
.TH SCTP_OPT_INFO 3 2004-01-30 "Linux 2.6" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
sctp_optinfo \- Get options on a SCTP socket. 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.B #include <sys/socket.h>
.B #include <netinet/sctp.h>
.sp
.BI "int sctp_opt_info(int " sd ", sctp_assoc_t " id ", int " opt ,
.BI "                  void * " arg ", socklen_t * " size);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR sctp_opt_info
is a wrapper library function that can be used to get SCTP level options on
a socket.
.I sd
is the socket descriptor for which the option is requested. For one-to-many
style sockets,
.I id
specifies the association to query. For one-to-one style sockets,
.I id
is ignored.
.I opt
specifes the SCTP socket option to get.
.I arg
is an option-specific structure buffer provided by the caller. 
.I size
is a value-result parameter, initially containing the size of the buffer
pointed to by
.I arg
and modifed on return to indicate the actual size of the value returned.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
On success,
.BR sctp_opt_info
returns 0 and on failure -1 is returned with errno set to the appropriate
error code.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR sctp (7)
.BR sctp_bindx (3),
.BR sctp_connectx (3),
.BR sctp_sendmsg (3),
.BR sctp_sendv (3),
.BR sctp_send (3),
.BR sctp_recvmsg (3),
.BR sctp_recvv (3),
.BR sctp_peeloff (3),
.BR sctp_getpaddrs (3),
.BR sctp_getladdrs (3),
